June destination (#919)
rudderlabs/rudderstack-docs: docs/destinations/streaming-destinations/june/june-cloud-mode.mdx

---
title: "June Cloud Mode"
description:  Detailed technical documentation on sending events to June using the RudderStack cloud mode.
---

RudderStack lets you send your event data to June via <Link to="/destinations/rudderstack-connection-modes/#cloud-mode">cloud mode</Link>.

<div class="infoBlock">
Find the open-source transformer code for this destination in the <a href="https://github.com/rudderlabs/rudder-transformer/tree/master/v0/destinations/june">GitHub repository</a>.
</div>

## Identify

> You can use the <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/identify/">`identify`</Link> call to create new users or update existing users' details in June. RudderStack sends the `identify` call to June as an `identify` event. 

Reviewer: Can attach `JUNE` Identify API link here.
https://www.june.so/docs/api#:~:text=Copy-,Identifying%20users,-You%20can%20use

A sample `identify` call is shown below:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.identify("1hKOmRA4el9Z", {
  name: "Alex Keener",
  email: "alex@example.com"
})
```

### Property mappings

The following table lists the property mappings between RudderStack and June for the `identify` call:

| RudderStack property   | June property  | Data type | Presence |
| :-------------| :-----------------|:-------------| :-----------------|
| `userId`/`traits.userId`/`traits.id`/`context.traits.userId`/`context.traits.id`       | `userId`        | String | Required |
| `originalTimestamp`/`timestamp`  | `timestamp`      |String *(ISO 8601 date format yyyy-MM-ddTHH:mm:ss.SSSZ)* | Required |
| `traits`/`context.traits`              | `traits`      |Object | Optional |

## Track

> The <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/track">`track`</Link> call lets you capture user events along with the properties associated with them. RudderStack sends the `track` call to June as a `track` event.

Reviewer: Can attach JUNE Track API link here.
https://www.june.so/docs/api#:~:text=Copy-,Send%20track%20events,-In%20order%20to

A sample `track` call is shown below:

```javascript

> rudderanalytics.track("Product Reviewed", {

Reviewer: Please use the update snippet from research spec.

  review_id: "345676543",
  product_id: "123454387",
  rating: 3.0,
  review_body: "Average product, expected much more.",
  groupId: "89103",
});
```

### Property mappings

The following table lists the property mappings between RudderStack and June for the `track` call:

| RudderStack property   | June property  | Data type | Presence |
| :-------------| :-----------------|:-------------| :-----------------|
| `userId`/`traits.userId`/`traits.id`/`context.traits.userId`/`context.traits.id`       | `userId`        | String | Required |
| `event`            | `event`      | String | Required |
| `originalTimestamp`/`timestamp`  | `timestamp`      |String *(ISO 8601 date format yyyy-MM-ddTHH:mm:ss.SSSZ)* | Required |
| `traits`/`context.traits`              | `traits`      |Object | Optional |
| `properties`            | `properties`      | Object | Optional |
| `context.externalId.id` (when `context.externalId.type` = `juneGroupId`/`properties.groupId`)  | `context.groupId`    | String | Optional |

## Group

> You can use the <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/group/">`group`</Link> call to create a new company or update an existing company's details in June.

Reviewer: Can attach `JUNE` group API link here
https://www.june.so/docs/api#:~:text=Identifying%20companies%20(optional)

<div class="warningBlock">

> To create a company or update the company details, the <code class="inline-code">groupId</code> should be passed in the <code class="inline-code">track</code> call.

Reviewer: This statement is wrong. We are not creating/updating company details in track call.
We can use :- 
`If you're identifying companies, you should pass the `groupId` in track call.
`groupId`  in track call allows you to specify what company performed an event`

---
title: "June Cloud Mode"
description:  Detailed technical documentation on sending events to June using the RudderStack cloud mode.
---

> RudderStack lets you send your event data to June via <Link to="/destinations/rudderstack-connection-modes/#cloud-mode">cloud mode</Link>.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RudderStack lets you send your event data to June via the <Link to="/destinations/rudderstack-connection-modes/#cloud-mode">cloud mode</Link>.
```

<div class="infoBlock">
Find the open-source transformer code for this destination in the <a href="https://github.com/rudderlabs/rudder-transformer/tree/master/v0/destinations/june">GitHub repository</a>.
</div>

## Identify

> You can use the <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/identify/">`identify`</Link> call to create new users or update existing users' details in June. RudderStack sends the `identify` call to June as an [`identify`](https://www.june.so/docs/api#:~:text=Copy-,Identifying%20users,-You%20can%20use) event. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/identify/">`identify`</Link> call to create new users or update an existing user's details in June. RudderStack sends the `identify` call to June as an [`identify`](https://www.june.so/docs/api#:~:text=Copy-,Identifying%20users,-You%20can%20use) event. 
```

A sample `identify` call is shown below:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.identify("1hKOmRA4el9Z", {
  name: "Alex Keener",
  email: "alex@example.com"
})
```

### Property mappings

The following table lists the property mappings between RudderStack and June for the `identify` call:

| RudderStack property   | June property  | Data type | Presence |
| :-------------| :-----------------|:-------------| :-----------------|
| `userId`/`traits.userId`/`traits.id`/`context.traits.userId`/`context.traits.id`       | `userId`        | String | Required |

> | `originalTimestamp`/`timestamp`  | `timestamp`      |String *(ISO 8601 date format yyyy-MM-ddTHH:mm:ss.SSSZ)* | Required |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `originalTimestamp`/`timestamp`  | `timestamp`      |String (ISO 8601 date format `yyyy-MM-ddTHH:mm:ss.SSSZ`) | Required |
```

| `traits`/`context.traits`              | `traits`      |Object | Optional |

## Track

> The <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/track">`track`</Link> call lets you capture user events along with the properties associated with them. RudderStack sends the `track` call to June as a [`track`](https://www.june.so/docs/api#:~:text=Copy-,Send%20track%20events,-In%20order%20to) event.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/track">`track`</Link> call lets you capture user events along with the properties associated with them. RudderStack sends the `track` call to June using their [`track`](https://www.june.so/docs/api#:~:text=Copy-,Send%20track%20events,-In%20order%20to) API.
```

    }, ],
  }
);
```

### Property mappings

The following table lists the property mappings between RudderStack and June for the `track` call:

| RudderStack property   | June property  | Data type | Presence |
| :-------------| :-----------------|:-------------| :-----------------|
| `userId`/`traits.userId`/`traits.id`/`context.traits.userId`/`context.traits.id`       | `userId`        | String | Required |
| `event`            | `event`      | String | Required |
| `originalTimestamp`/`timestamp`  | `timestamp`      |String *(ISO 8601 date format yyyy-MM-ddTHH:mm:ss.SSSZ)* | Required |
| `properties`            | `properties`      | Object | Optional |
| <ul><li>If `context.externalId.id` (when `context.externalId.type` = `juneGroupId`) is present.</li><li>Otherwise, `properties.groupId`.</li></ul>   | `context.groupId`    | String | Optional |

## Group

You can use the <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/group/">`group`</Link> call to create a new company or update an existing company's details in June. Refer to the [June documentation](https://www.june.so/docs/api#:~:text=Identifying%20companies%20(optional)) for more information.

<div class="warningBlock">

> To identify a company, pass the <code class="inline-code">groupId</code> in the <code class="inline-code">track</code> call. It allows you to specify which company performed that specific event.

Reviewer: - Statement seems incorrect. We are not `identifying companies `in track call.
`Group` call is used to identify company. It is recommended to pass `groupId` in `track` call If user is using the group call (Identify company)
- Also, please move this `note` to track call.

> If you are using a <code class="inline-code">group</code> call to identify a company, it is recommended to pass the <code class="inline-code">groupId</code> in the <code class="inline-code">track</code> call. It allows you to specify which company performed that specific event.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are using a <code class="inline-code">group</code> call to identify a company, it is recommended to pass the <code class="inline-code">groupId</code> in the <code class="inline-code">track</code> call. It allows you to specify which company performed that specific event. For more information, refer to the <a href="https://www.june.so/docs/api#:~:text=Copy-,Send%20track%20events,-In%20order%20to">June documentation</a>.
```

</div>

A sample `group` call is shown below:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.group("23Np893Z6", {
  name: "ABC company",
  employees: 100,
  Industry: "Video game publisher",
  Founded: 1979
});
```

### Property mappings

The following table lists the property mappings between RudderStack and June for the `group` call:

| RudderStack property   | June property  | Data type | Presence |
| :-------------| :-----------------|:-------------| :-----------------|

> | `userId`/`traits.userId`/`traits.id`/`context.traits.userId`/`context.traits.id`       | `userId`        | String | <ul><li>Required while creating a company.</li><li>Optional while updating the company details.</li></ul>  |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `userId`/`traits.userId`/`traits.id`/`context.traits.userId`/`context.traits.id`       | `userId`        | String | <ul><li>Required for creating a company.</li><li>Optional for updating the company details.</li></ul>  |
```

| `originalTimestamp`/`timestamp`  | `timestamp`      |DateTime *(ISO 8601 date format yyyy-MM-ddTHH:mm:ss.SSSZ)* | Required |
| `groupId`/`traits.groupId`              | `groupId`      |String | Required |
| `traits`/`context.traits`              | `traits`      |Object | Optional |

## FAQ

### Can I make an `identify` or `track` call using `anonymousId`?

> No, you can't. June does not stitches identities together or offers anonymous user merging. It is rather used for logged-in experiences where you can measure user activation and retention.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
No, you can't. June does not stitch identities together or support merging anonymous users. Rather, it is best used to measure user activation and retention when the user is logged in.
```

Reviewer 2: LMK if this change makes sense.

### My user is created as `Unknown` in June dashboard. What might be the reason?

> June categorizes a user as `Unknown` if the `firsName`, `lastName`, `name`, `username`, or `email` is not present in the `identify` call's `traits`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
June categorizes a user as `Unknown` if the `firstName`, `lastName`, `name`, `username`, or `email` is not present in the `traits` object of the `identify` call.
```
